Cloud Systems Introduction
(Mastering Cloud Computing: Chapter#1)
Lalit Kumar

 
As of now, computer networks are still in their infancy, but as they grow up and become sophisticated, we will probably see the spread of ‘computer utilities’ which, like present electric telephone utilities, will service individual homes and offices across the country.


-Leonard Kleinrock, 1969, ARPANET

 The Vision...
IT/Non-IT Company
Startup/New Company
End User
Office365, AdobePro ...
Google App Engine ...
AWS ...

 Defining Cloud Computing

Huh?
It’s a Buzzword!
Term for MANY ideas and concepts
Cloud computing refers to both the applications delivered as services over the Internet and the hardware and software in the datacenters that provide those services. - Armburst

Cloud computing is a model for enabling ubiquitous, convenient, on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources (e.g., networks, servers, storage, applications, and services) that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction. - NIST

 Reese’s Definition (as a utility)
The service is accessible via a Web browser or a Web services application programming interface (API)
Zero capital expenditure is necessary to get started.
You pay only for what you use as you use it.

Buyya et. al., (Our text author)
A cloud is a type of parallel and distributed system consisting of a collection of interconnected and virtualized computers that are dynamically provisioned and presented as one or more unified computing resources based on service-level agreements established through negotiation between the service provider and consumers.

Existing Cloud
AWS
UC Infrastructure
IT Industry / Banking System / NetFlix

Evolution of Sharing on the Internet

Reference Model

Benefits to a regular business?
No up-front commitments
On-demand access
Nice pricing (capital costs -> utility costs, no depreciation)
Simplified app acceleration and scalability
Efficient resource allocation
Energy efficiency??
Seamless creation and use of third-party services

Benefits for Software Company going to SaaS
No deployment issues (CDs, downloads, etc)
No need to support multiple OSs
Faster to market
A/B testing of features
Efficiency and reliability now key
More efficient developers, just try it!

Storms may be on the horizon...
Security
Confidentiality, Secrecy, Protection

Legal
Google/Facebook privacy
Differing viewing laws

Latency & Data Location (later)

How did we get here?
5 core technologies:

Distributed Systems
Virtualization
Web 2.0
Service-oriented computing
Utility-oriented computing

Emerging Cloud Trends
Source: Forrester Research Inc, Forrester top 15 emerging technologies to watch
Fog Computing & Edge Computing
Containerization
PaaS
Security Automation & Orchestration
Hybrid Wireless
Fog computing is the idea of a distributed network that connects servers and end device. “Fog provides the missing link for what data needs to be pushed to the cloud, and what can be analyzed locally, at the edge,” (Speech and Image analysis by search engine)
